[QUEUES] HTTP Pull docs (#12844)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/queues/reference/pull-consumers.md

---
pcx_content_type: reference
title: Pull consumers
weight: 15
meta:
  title: Cloudflare Queues - Pull consumers
---

# Pull consumers

A pull-based consumer allows you to pull from a queue over HTTP from any environment and/or programming language outside of Cloudflare Workers. A pull-based consumer can be useful when your message consumption rate is limited by upstream infrastructure or long-running tasks.

## Push or pull?

Deciding whether to configure a push-based consumer or a pull-based consumer will intend on how you are using your queues, as well as the configuration of infrastructure upstream from your queue consumer.

As a general rule-of-thumb, starting with a [push-based consumer](/queues/reference/how-queues-works/#consumers) is the easiest way to get started and consume from a queue. You 

> 

Reviewer: sentence cut off at `You`?

Author: fixing!

To configure a pull-based consumer, you will need to create [an API token](/fundamentals/api/get-started/create-token/) with both the `queues#read` and `queues#write` permissions. A consumer must be able to write to a queue to acknowledge messages.

{{</Aside>}}

1. Configure a consumer
2. Authenticate to the API
3. Pull messages 
4. Acknowledge messages

## Authentication

HTTP Pull consumers require an [API token](/fundamentals/api/get-started/create-token/) with the `com.cloudflare.api.account.queues_read` and `com.cloudflare.api.account.queues_write` permissions.

Both read _and_ write are required as a pull-based consumer needs to write to the queue state in order to acknowledge the messages it receives: consuming messages mutates the queue.

API tokens are presented as Bearer tokens in the `Authorization` header of a HTTP request in the format `Authorization: Bearer $YOUR_TOKEN_HERE`. The following example shows how to pass an API token using the `curl` HTTP client:

```sh
$ curl "https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/${CF_ACCOUNT_ID}/queues/${QUEUE_ID}/messages/pull" --data '{"ack":["<lease_id_here>"], "retry":[]}' \

>      -H "Authorization: Bearer ${QUEUES_TOKEN}" \

Reviewer: `-XPOST`?

Author: Don't need `-X POST` if you provide `--data` or `-d` or `--data-binary`-  curl will assume `POST` for you (going back a LONG while!)

Reviewer: URL shows `pull` but `--data` shows body for `/ack`

---
pcx_content_type: reference
title: Pull consumers
weight: 15
meta:
  title: Cloudflare Queues - Pull consumers
---

# Pull consumers

A pull-based consumer allows you to pull from a queue over HTTP from any environment and/or programming language outside of Cloudflare Workers. A pull-based consumer can be useful when your message consumption rate is limited by upstream infrastructure or long-running tasks.

## Push or pull?

> Deciding whether to configure a push-based consumer or a pull-based consumer will intend on how you are using your queues, as well as the configuration of infrastructure upstream from your queue consumer.

Reviewer 2: "will intend" => "will depend"?

* As a general rule-of-thumb, starting with a [push-based consumer](/queues/reference/how-queues-works/#consumers) is the easiest way to get started and consume from a queue. A push-based consumer runs on Workers, and by default, will automatically scale up and consume messages as they are written to the queue.

> * Use a pull-based consumer if you need to consume messages from existing infrastucture outside of Cloudflare Workers, and/or where you need to carefully control how fast messages are consumed. A pull-based consumer must explicitly make a call to pull (and then acknowledge) messages from the queue, one batch at a time.

Reviewer 2: "one batch at a time" makes it sound like you can't pull two batches concurrently, or e.g. have two (or N) threads pulling on a queue

Author: Let me improve this here

$ curl "https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/${CF_ACCOUNT_ID}/queues/${QUEUE_ID}/messages/pull" \
  --data '{ "visibilityTimeout": 10000, "batchSize": 2 }' \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer ${QUEUES_TOKEN}" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json"
```

### Create API tokens

To create an API token:

1. Visit the API tokens page of the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/profile/api-tokens/)
2. Select **Create Token**
3. Scroll to the bottom of the page and select **Create Custom Token**
4. Give the token a name - e.g. `queue-pull-token`
5. Under the **Permissions** section, choose **Account** and then **Queues**. Ensure you have selected **Edit** (read+write).
6. (Optional) Select **All accounts** (default) or a specific account to scope the token to.
7. Select **Continue to summary** and then **Create token**

You will need to note the token down: it will only be displayed once.

## Content types

{{<Aside type="warning">}}

When attaching a pull-based consumer to a queue, you should ensure that messages are sent with only a `text`, `bytes` or `json` [content type](/queues/reference/javascript-apis/#queuescontenttype).

The default content type is `json`.

> Pull-based consumers cannot decode the `v8` content type as it is specific to the Workers runtime.

Reviewer 2: In theory they could try to perform v8 deserialization, e.g. in Node: https://nodejs.org/api/v8.html#v8deserializebuffer

But it is probably better for them to just use another content type, indeed.

Author: Yeah - I want to avoid opening that can of worms. JSON, byte array, or string work here.

{{</Aside>}}

TODO - note on content types

## Pulling messages

TODO - 

* Pulling
* Concept of visibility timeouts

> * Concurrent HTTP consumers and lease IDs

Reviewer 2: 👍 Ah nice, you'll discuss concurrent pullers here

Author: Yeah, but let me fix the language above to be a bit clearer about that concurrency too!

* Batching

## Acknowledging messages

Messages pulled by a consumer need to be either acknowledged or marked for retry. 

* Lease IDs
* Acknowledge messages
* Retry messages

Each batch of messages resembles the below:

```json
"messages": [
  {

>     "body": "/w9vIgRwYXRoIgQvYmFyIgl0aW1lc3RhbXBOACD5bk6WeEIiC2V5ZWJhbGxDb2xvIgNGUkF7Aw==",

Reviewer 2: Is this a v8 format message? It would probably be better to have an example that shows a JSON or text here (including the content type in the message metadata section)

Note that you can remove and attach a new consumer on a queue at any time, allowing you to change from a pull-based to a push-based consumer if your requirements change.

# Configuration

{{<Aside type="note" header="Retrieve an API bearer token">}}

To configure a pull-based consumer, you will need to create [an API token](/fundamentals/api/get-started/create-token/) with both the `queues#read` and `queues#write` permissions. A consumer must be able to write to a queue to acknowledge messages.

{{</Aside>}}

There are four steps required to configure a pull-based consumer and receive messages from a queue:

1. Enabling HTTP pull for the queue
2. Creating a valid authentication token for the HTTP client
3. Pulling message batches from the queue
4. Acknowledging and/or retrying messages within a batch

## 1. Enabling HTTP pull

TODO: To enable HTTP pull 

### wrangler.toml

A HTTP consumer can be configured in `wrangler.toml` 

```toml
[[queues.consumer]]
# Required
queue = "QUEUE_NAME"
type = "http_pull"
# Optional
visibility_timeout_ms = 5000
max_retries = 5
dead_letter_queue = "SOME_OTHER_QUEUE"

> ```

Reviewer 3: also `retry_delay`

Reviewer 4: delivery controls are not yet supported in the wrangler.toml file, it's WIP. We can omit this one.

{{<Aside type="note">}}

TODO - warn on conflicting configuration

{{</Aside>}}

### Dashboard

TODO

### wrangler CLI

```sh
$ npx wrangler queues consumer:http add $QUEUE_NAME

> ```

Reviewer: this is changing to `npx wrangler queues consumer http add $QUEUE_NAME` with space instead of `:`

TODO - update 

```sh
$ wrangler queues consumer:worker remove $QUEUE_NAME $SCRIPT_NAME

> ```

Reviewer: changing to `wrangler queues consumer worker remove $QUEUE_NAME $SCRIPT_NAME`

Author: fixed

{{<Aside type="note">}}

If you remove the Worker consumer with `wrangler` but do not delete the `[[queues.consumer]]` configuration from `wrangler.toml`, subsequent deployments of your Worker will fail when they attempt to add a conflicting consumer configuration.

Ensure you remove the consumer configuration first.

{{</Aside>}}

## 2. Consumer authentication

HTTP Pull consumers require an [API token](/fundamentals/api/get-started/create-token/) with the `com.cloudflare.api.account.queues_read` and `com.cloudflare.api.account.queues_write` permissions.

Both read _and_ write are required as a pull-based consumer needs to write to the queue state in order to acknowledge the messages it receives: consuming messages mutates the queue.

API tokens are presented as Bearer tokens in the `Authorization` header of a HTTP request in the format `Authorization: Bearer $YOUR_TOKEN_HERE`. The following example shows how to pass an API token using the `curl` HTTP client:

```sh
$ curl "https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/${CF_ACCOUNT_ID}/queues/${QUEUE_ID}/messages/pull" \

>   --data '{ "visibilityTimeout": 10000, "batchSize": 2 }' \

Author: fixing

  -H "Authorization: Bearer ${QUEUES_TOKEN}" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json"
```

### Create API tokens

To create an API token:

1. Visit the API tokens page of the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/profile/api-tokens/)
2. Select **Create Token**
3. Scroll to the bottom of the page and select **Create Custom Token**
4. Give the token a name - e.g. `queue-pull-token`
5. Under the **Permissions** section, choose **Account** and then **Queues**. Ensure you have selected **Edit** (read+write).
6. (Optional) Select **All accounts** (default) or a specific account to scope the token to.
7. Select **Continue to summary** and then **Create token**

You will need to note the token down: it will only be displayed once.

## 3. Pulling messages

TODO - 

* Pulling
* Concept of visibility timeouts and leases
* Concurrent HTTP consumers and lease IDs
* Batching

> 

Reviewer: IDK if you want to mention something about concept of short-polling, but that's what we're doing at this point in time with pull consumers. In other words we send the response right away, even if the query found no messages. Plans for long-polling in future, I believe. https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/sqs-short-and-long-polling.html

Author: GREAT call. let me clarify this.

Author: <img width="821" alt="image" src="https://github.com/cloudflare/cloudflare-docs/assets/18544/5db8a502-d167-414a-aaee-65d5e7b1061e">

Each message returned in a batch has a `leaseID`, which is unique to that message, and holds or "leases" those messages to the consumer for the specified `visibilityTimeout`.

The `leaseID` allows your pull consumer to explicitly acknowledge some, none or all messages in the batch or mark them for retry. If messages are not acknowledged or marked for retry by the consumer, then they will be marked for re-delivery.

> There are two configurable settings when pulling from a queue:

Reviewer: also `maxRetries`

1. `batchSize` (defaults to 5; max 100) - how many messages are returned to the consumer in each pull.
2. `visibilityTimeout` (defaults to 30 second; max 12 hours) - defines how long the consumer has to explicitly acknowledge messages delivered in the batch based on their `leaseID`. Once this timeout expires, messages are assumed unacknowledged and queued for re-delivery again.

## 4. Acknowledging messages

> Messages pulled by a consumer need to be either acknowledged or marked for retry. 

Reviewer 3: Not sure if relevant here but for each message to be retried it is possible now to specify the `delaySeconds` option.

---

# Pull consumers

A pull-based consumer allows you to pull from a queue over HTTP from any environment and/or programming language outside of Cloudflare Workers. A pull-based consumer can be useful when your message consumption rate is limited by upstream infrastructure or long-running tasks.

## Push or pull?

Deciding whether to configure a push-based consumer or a pull-based consumer will depend on how you are using your queues, as well as the configuration of infrastructure upstream from your queue consumer.

- As a general rule-of-thumb, starting with a [push-based consumer](/queues/reference/how-queues-works/#consumers) is the easiest way to get started and consume from a queue. A push-based consumer runs on Workers, and by default, will automatically scale up and consume messages as they are written to the queue.
- Use a pull-based consumer if you need to consume messages from existing infrastucture outside of Cloudflare Workers, and/or where you need to carefully control how fast messages are consumed. A pull-based consumer must explicitly make a call to pull (and then acknowledge) messages from the queue, only when it is ready to do so.

> Note that you can remove and attach a new consumer on a queue at any time, allowing you to change from a pull-based to a push-based consumer if your requirements change.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You can remove and attach a new consumer on a queue at any time, allowing you to change from a pull-based to a push-based consumer if your requirements change.
```

# Configuration

{{<Aside type="note" header="Retrieve an API bearer token">}}

> To configure a pull-based consumer, you will need to create [an API token](/fundamentals/api/get-started/create-token/) with both the `queues#read` and `queues#write` permissions. A consumer must be able to write to a queue to acknowledge messages.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To configure a pull-based consumer, create [an API token](/fundamentals/api/get-started/create-token/) with both the `queues#read` and `queues#write` permissions. A consumer must be able to write to a queue to acknowledge messages.
```

{{</Aside>}}

> There are four steps required to configure a pull-based consumer and receive messages from a queue:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To configure a pull-based consumer and receive messages from a queue, you need to:
```

> 1. Enabling HTTP pull for the queue

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. Enable HTTP pull for the queue.
```

> 2. Creating a valid authentication token for the HTTP client

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
2. Create a valid authentication token for the HTTP client.
```

> 3. Pulling message batches from the queue

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
3. Pull message batches from the queue.
```

> 4. Acknowledging and/or retrying messages within a batch

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
4. Acknowledge and/or retry messages within a batch.
```

> ## 1. Enabling HTTP pull

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
## 1. Enable HTTP pull
```

> You can enable HTTP pull or change a queue from push-based to pull-based via `wrangler.toml`, the `wrangler` CLI, or via the Cloudflare dashboard.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You can enable HTTP pull or change a queue from push-based to pull-based via `wrangler.toml`, the `wrangler` CLI, or via the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/).
```

### wrangler.toml

> A HTTP consumer can be configured in `wrangler.toml` by setting `type = "http_pull"` in the consumer configuration.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
A HTTP consumer can be configured in `wrangler.toml` by setting `type = "http_pull"` in the consumer configuration:
```

```toml
[[queues.consumer]]
# Required
queue = "QUEUE_NAME"
type = "http_pull"
# Optional
visibility_timeout_ms = 5000
max_retries = 5
dead_letter_queue = "SOME_OTHER_QUEUE"
```

Omitting the `type` property will default the queue to push-based.

> ### Dashboard

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
### Enable HTTP pull via the Cloudflare dashboard
```

> TODO

Reviewer 5: @elithrar did you mean to add something here?

### wrangler CLI

You can enable a pull-based consumer on any existing queue by using the `wrangler queues consumer http` sub-commands and providing a queue name.

```sh
$ npx wrangler queues consumer http add $QUEUE_NAME
```

> Note that if you have an existing push-based consumer, you will need to remove that first. `wrangler` will return an error if you attempt to call `consumer http add` on a queue with an existing consumer configuration:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If you have an existing push-based consumer, you will need to remove that first. `wrangler` will return an error if you attempt to call `consumer http add` on a queue with an existing consumer configuration:
```

```sh
$ wrangler queues consumer worker remove $QUEUE_NAME $SCRIPT_NAME
```

{{<Aside type="note">}}

If you remove the Worker consumer with `wrangler` but do not delete the `[[queues.consumer]]` configuration from `wrangler.toml`, subsequent deployments of your Worker will fail when they attempt to add a conflicting consumer configuration.

Ensure you remove the consumer configuration first.

{{</Aside>}}

## 2. Consumer authentication

HTTP Pull consumers require an [API token](/fundamentals/api/get-started/create-token/) with the `com.cloudflare.api.account.queues_read` and `com.cloudflare.api.account.queues_write` permissions.

> Both read _and_ write are required as a pull-based consumer needs to write to the queue state in order to acknowledge the messages it receives: consuming messages mutates the queue.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Both read _and_ write are required as a pull-based consumer needs to write to the queue state to acknowledge the messages it receives. Consuming messages mutates the queue.
```

API tokens are presented as Bearer tokens in the `Authorization` header of a HTTP request in the format `Authorization: Bearer $YOUR_TOKEN_HERE`. The following example shows how to pass an API token using the `curl` HTTP client:

```sh
$ curl "https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/${CF_ACCOUNT_ID}/queues/${QUEUE_ID}/messages/pull" \
  --data '{ "visibilityTimeout": 10000, "batchSize": 2 }' \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer ${QUEUES_TOKEN}" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json"
```

You may authenticate and run multiple concurrent pull-based consumers against a single queue, noting that all consumers will share the same (rate limit](queues/platform/limits/) against the Cloudflare API.

### Create API tokens

To create an API token:

> 1. Visit the API tokens page of the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/profile/api-tokens/)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. Go to the API tokens page of the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/profile/api-tokens/).
```

> 2. Select **Create Token**

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
2. Select **Create Token**.
```

> 3. Scroll to the bottom of the page and select **Create Custom Token**

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
3. Scroll to the bottom of the page and select **Create Custom Token**.
```

> 4. Give the token a name - e.g. `queue-pull-token`

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
4. Give the token a name. For example, `queue-pull-token`.
```

5. Under the **Permissions** section, choose **Account** and then **Queues**. Ensure you have selected **Edit** (read+write).
6. (Optional) Select **All accounts** (default) or a specific account to scope the token to.

> 7. Select **Continue to summary** and then **Create token**

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
7. Select **Continue to summary** and then **Create token**.
```

You will need to note the token down: it will only be displayed once.

> ## 3. Pulling messages

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
## 3. Pull messages
```

  {
    method: "POST",
    headers: {
      "content-type": "application/json",
      authorization: `Bearer ${QUEUES_API_TOKEN}`,
    },
    // Optional - you can provide an empty object '{}' and the defaults will apply.
    body: JSON.stringify({ visibility_timeout: 6000, batch_size: 50 }),
  }
);
```

This will return an array of messages (up to the specified `batch_size`) in the below format:

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "errors": [],
  "messages": [],
  "result": {
    "messages": [
      {
        "body": "hello",
        "id": "1ad27d24c83de78953da635dc2ea208f",
        "timestamp_ms": 1689615013586,
        "attempts": 2,
        "lease_id": "eyJhbGciOiJkaXIiLCJlbmMiOiJBMjU2Q0JDLUhTNTEyIn0..NXmbr8h6tnKLsxJ_AuexHQ.cDt8oBb_XTSoKUkVKRD_Jshz3PFXGIyu7H1psTO5UwI.smxSvQ8Ue3-ymfkV6cHp5Va7cyUFPIHuxFJA07i17sc"
      },
      {
        "body": "world",
        "id": "95494c37bb89ba8987af80b5966b71a7",
        "timestamp_ms": 1689615013586,
        "attempts": 2,
        "lease_id": "eyJhbGciOiJkaXIiLCJlbmMiOiJBMjU2Q0JDLUhTNTEyIn0..QXPgHfzETsxYQ1Vd-H0hNA.mFALS3lyouNtgJmGSkTzEo_imlur95EkSiH7fIRIn2U.PlwBk14CY_EWtzYB-_5CR1k30bGuPFPUx1Nk5WIipFU"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

> Pull consumers take a "short polling" approach: if there are messages available to be delivered, Queues will return a response immediately with messages up to the configured `batch_size`. If there are no messages to deliver, Queues will return an empty response. Queues does not hold an open connection (often referred to as "long polling") if there are no messages to deliver.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Pull consumers follow a "short polling" approach: if there are messages available to be delivered, Queues will return a response immediately with messages up to the configured `batch_size`. If there are no messages to deliver, Queues will return an empty response. Queues does not hold an open connection (often referred to as "long polling") if there are no messages to deliver.
```

4. `attempts` - how many times the message has been attempted to be delivered in full. When this reaches the value of `max_retries`, the message will not be re-delivered and will be deleted from the queue permanently.
5. `lease_id` - the encoded lease ID of the message. The `lease_id` is used to explicitly acknowledge or retry the message.

The `lease_id` allows your pull consumer to explicitly acknowledge some, none or all messages in the batch or mark them for retry. If messages are not acknowledged or marked for retry by the consumer, then they will be marked for re-delivery once the `visibility_timeout` is reached. A `lease_id` is no longer valid once this timeout has been reached.

You can configure both `batch_size` and `visibility_timeout` when pulling from a queue:

* `batch_size` (defaults to 5; max 100) - how many messages are returned to the consumer in each pull.
* `visibility_timeout` (defaults to 30 second; max 12 hours) - defines how long the consumer has to explicitly acknowledge messages delivered in the batch based on their `lease_id`. Once this timeout expires, messages are assumed unacknowledged and queued for re-delivery again.

### Concurrent consumers

> You may have multiple HTTP clients pulling from the same queue concurrently: each client will receieve a unique batch of messages and retain the "lease" on those messages up until the `visibility_timeout` expires, or until those messages are marked for retry.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You may have multiple HTTP clients pulling from the same queue concurrently: each client will receive a unique batch of messages and retain the "lease" on those messages up until the `visibility_timeout` expires, or until those messages are marked for retry.
```

Messages marked for retry will be put back into the queue and can be delivered to any consumer. Messages are _not_ tied to a specific consumer, as consumers do not have an identity and to avoid a slow or stuck consumer from holding up processing of messages in a queue.

> Multiple consumers can be useful in cases where you have multiple upstream resources (e.g. GPU infrastructure), where you want to autoscale based on the [backlog](/queues/reference/metrics/) of a queue, and/or cost.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Multiple consumers can be useful in cases where you have multiple upstream resources (for example, GPU infrastructure), where you want to autoscale based on the [backlog](/queues/reference/metrics/) of a queue, and/or cost.
```

> ## 4. Acknowledging messages

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
## 4. Acknowledge messages
```

Messages pulled by a consumer need to be either acknowledged or marked for retry. To acknowledge and/or mark messages to be retried:

```ts
// POST /accounts/${CF_ACCOUNT_ID}/queues/${QUEUE_ID}/messages/ack with the lease_ids
let resp = await fetch(
  `https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/${CF_ACCOUNT_ID}/queues/${QUEUE_ID}/messages/ack`,
  {
    method: "POST",
    headers: {
      "content-type": "application/json",
      authorization: `Bearer ${QUEUES_API_TOKEN}`,
    },

>     // If you have no messages to retry, you can return an empty array - retry: []

Reviewer 6: consider:
```
// If you have no messages to retry, you can specify an empty array - retries: []
```

Author: Fixing (we renamed some of these on the fly)

>     body: JSON.stringify({ acks: ["lease_id1", "lease_id2", "etc"], retries: [{"lease_id4"}]}),

Reviewer 6: invalid syntax, consider (using the type hint below):
```
body: JSON.stringify({ acks: ["lease_id1", "lease_id2", "etc"], retries: [{ lease_id: "lease_id4" }]}),
```

Author: Good catch - thanks!

  }
);
```

> You may optionally specify the number of seconds to delay a message for when marking it for retry by providing a `{ lease_id: string, secondsToDelayFor: number }` object in the `retries` array:

Reviewer 6: case styles are inconsistent here: `lease_id` vs `secondsToDelayFor`

```json

> { acks: ["lease_id1", "lease_id2", "lease_id3"], retries: [{"somelease_id", 300}, {"someotherlease_id", 600}]}

Reviewer 6: invalid syntax, consider (using the type hint above)
```
{ acks: ["lease_id1", "lease_id2", "lease_id3"], retries: [{ lease_id: "somelease_id", secondsToDelayFor: 300 }, { lease_id: "someotherlease_id", secondsToDelayFor: 600 }]}
```

* You should provide every `lease_id` in the request to the `/ack` endpoint if you are processing those messages in your consumer. If you do not acknowledge a message, it will be marked for re-delivery (put back in the queue).
* You can optionally mark messages to be retried: for example, if there is an error processing the message or you have upstream resource pressure. Explicitly marking a message for retry will place it back into the queue immediately, instead of waiting for a (potentially long) `visibility_timeout` to be reached.

> * You can make multiple calls to the `/ack` endpoint as you make progress through a batch of messages, but we recommend grouping acknowledgements to avoid hitting [API rate limits](/queues/reference/limits/).

Author: ```suggestion
* You can make multiple calls to the `/ack` endpoint as you make progress through a batch of messages, but we recommend grouping acknowledgements to avoid hitting [API rate limits](/queues/platform/limits/).
```

* You should provide every `lease_id` in the request to the `/ack` endpoint if you are processing those messages in your consumer. If you do not acknowledge a message, it will be marked for re-delivery (put back in the queue).
* You can optionally mark messages to be retried: for example, if there is an error processing the message or you have upstream resource pressure. Explicitly marking a message for retry will place it back into the queue immediately, instead of waiting for a (potentially long) `visibility_timeout` to be reached.
* You can make multiple calls to the `/ack` endpoint as you make progress through a batch of messages, but we recommend grouping acknowledgements to avoid hitting [API rate limits](/queues/reference/limits/).

> Note that Queues aims to be permissive when it comes to lease IDs: if a consumer acknowledges a message by its lease ID _after_ the visibility timeout is reached, Queues will still accept that acknowledgment. If the message was delivered to another consumer during the intervening period, it will also be able to acknowledge the message without an error.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Queues aims to be permissive when it comes to lease IDs: if a consumer acknowledges a message by its lease ID _after_ the visibility timeout is reached, Queues will still accept that acknowledgment. If the message was delivered to another consumer during the intervening period, it will also be able to acknowledge the message without an error.
```

## Examples

### TypeScript (Node.js)

The following example is a Node.js-based TypeScript application that pulls from a queue on startup, acknowledges messages after writing them to stdout, and polls the queue at a fixed interval.

In a production application, you could replace writing to stdout with inserting into a database, making HTTP requests to an upstream service, or writing to object storage.

```ts

> 

Reviewer 5: @elithrar missing code snippet

```

### Go

The following example is a Go application that pulls from a queue on startup, acknowledges messages after writing them to stdout, and polls the queue at a fixed interval.

```go

> 

Reviewer 5: @elithrar missing code snippet

```

## Content types

{{<Aside type="warning">}}

When attaching a pull-based consumer to a queue, you should ensure that messages are sent with only a `text`, `bytes` or `json` [content type](/queues/reference/javascript-apis/#queuescontenttype).

The default content type is `json`.

Pull-based consumers cannot decode the `v8` content type as it is specific to the Workers runtime.

{{</Aside>}}

When publishing to a queue that has an external consumer, you should be aware that certain content types may be encoded in a way that allows them to be safely serialized within a JSON object.

For both the `json` and `bytes` content types, this means that they will be base64-encoded ([RFC 4648](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4648)). The `text` type will be sent as a plain UTF-8 encoded string.

Your consumer will need to decode the `json` and `bytes` types before operating on the data.

## Next steps

> - Review the [REST API documentation](/api/operations/queue-create-queue-consumer) and schema for Queues

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Review the [REST API documentation](/api/operations/queue-create-queue-consumer) and schema for Queues.
```
